keyboards/keyball/readme.md, before:

# Keyball series

This directory includes source code of Keyball keyboard series:

| Name          | Description
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
|[Keyball46](./keyball46)|A split keyboard with 46 vertically staggered keys and 34mm track ball.
|[Keyball61](./keyball61)|A split keyboard with 61 vertically staggered keys and 34mm track ball.
|[Keyball39](./keyball39)|A split keyboard with 39 vertically staggered keys and 34mm track ball.
|[ONE47](./one47)|A keyboard with 47 vertically keys and 34mm trackball. It will support BLE Micro Pro.
|[Keyball44](./keyball44)|A split keyboard with 44 vertically staggered keys and 34mm track ball.

* Keyboard Designer: [@Yowkees](https://twitter.com/Yowkees)  
* Hardware Supported: ProMicro like footprint
* Hardware Availability: See [Where to Buy](../../../README.md#where-to-buy)

See each directories for each keyboards in a table above.

## How to build

1. Check out this repository.

    ```console
    $ git clone https://github.com/Yowkees/keyball.git keyball
    ```

2. Check out [qmk/qmk_firmware](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/) repository in another place.

    ```console
    $ git clone https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware.git --depth 1 --recurse-submodules --shallow-submodules -b 0.22.3 qmk
    ```

    Currently Keyball firmwares are verified to compile with QMK 0.22.3

3. Create a symbolic link to this `keyball/` directory from [qmk/qmk_firmware]'s `keyboards/` directory.

    ```console
    $ ls
    keyball/ qmk/

    $ cd qmk/keyboards
    $ ln -s ../../keyball/qmk_firmware/keyboards/keyball keyball
    $ ls keyball/
    drivers/  keyball39/  keyball44/  keyball46/  keyball61/  lib/  one47/  readme.md
    $ cd ..
    ```

4. `make` your Keyball firmware.

    ```console
    # Build Keyball39 firmware with "default" keymap
    $ make SKIP_GIT=yes keyball/keyball39:default

    # Build Keyball44 firmware with "default" keymap
    $ make SKIP_GIT=yes keyball/keyball44:default

    # Build Keyball61 firmware with "default" keymap
    $ make SKIP_GIT=yes keyball/keyball61:default
    ```

There are three keymaps provided at least:

* `via` - Standard version with [Remap](https://remap-keys.app/) or VIA to change keymap
* `test` - Easy-to-use version for checking operation at build time
* `default` - Base version for creating your own customized firmware

## How to create your keymap

(TO BE DOCUMENTED)

Commit message:

keyball - merge with Yowkees branch

keyboards/keyball/readme.md, after:

# Keyball series

This directory includes source code of Keyball keyboard series:

| Name          | Description
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
|[Keyball46](./keyball46)|A split keyboard with 46 vertically staggered keys and 34mm track ball.
|[Keyball61](./keyball61)|A split keyboard with 61 vertically staggered keys and 34mm track ball.
|[Keyball39](./keyball39)|A split keyboard with 39 vertically staggered keys and 34mm track ball.
|[ONE47](./one47)|A keyboard with 47 vertically keys and 34mm trackball. It will support BLE Micro Pro.
|[Keyball44](./keyball44)|A split keyboard with 44 vertically staggered keys and 34mm track ball.

* Keyboard Designer: [@Yowkees](https://twitter.com/Yowkees)  
* Hardware Supported: ProMicro like footprint
* Hardware Availability: See [Where to Buy](../../../README.md#where-to-buy)

See each directories for each keyboards in a table above.

## How to build

1. Check out this repository.

    ```console
    $ git clone https://github.com/Yowkees/keyball.git keyball
    ```

2. Check out [qmk/qmk_firmware](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/) repository in another place.

    ```console
    $ git clone https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware.git --depth 1 --recurse-submodules --shallow-submodules -b 0.22.14 qmk
    ```

    Currently Keyball firmwares are verified to compile with QMK 0.22.14

3. Create a symbolic link to this `keyball/` directory from [qmk/qmk_firmware]'s `keyboards/` directory.

    ```console
    $ ls
    keyball/ qmk/

    $ cd qmk/keyboards
    $ ln -s ../../keyball/qmk_firmware/keyboards/keyball keyball
    $ ls keyball/
    drivers/  keyball39/  keyball44/  keyball46/  keyball61/  lib/  one47/  readme.md
    $ cd ..
    ```

4. `make` your Keyball firmware.

    ```console
    # Build Keyball39 firmware with "default" keymap
    $ make SKIP_GIT=yes keyball/keyball39:default

    # Build Keyball44 firmware with "default" keymap
    $ make SKIP_GIT=yes keyball/keyball44:default

    # Build Keyball61 firmware with "default" keymap
    $ make SKIP_GIT=yes keyball/keyball61:default
    ```

There are three keymaps provided at least:

* `via` - Standard version with [Remap](https://remap-keys.app/) or VIA to change keymap
* `test` - Easy-to-use version for checking operation at build time
* `default` - Base version for creating your own customized firmware

## How to create your keymap

1. Fork this Yowkees/keyball repository
2. Checkout forked repository
3. (OPTIONAL) Create a new branch
4. Add a your keymap, or make some changes
5. Commit changes and push it to your forked repository
6. Open your forked repository with web browser
7. Click and open "Actions" tab
8. Click "Build a firmware on demand" in Workflows on left panel
9. Press "Run workflow" button on right side, then you will see forms
10. (OPTIONAL) Select a your working branch
11. Select a "Keyboard" from drop-down list
12. Enter the "keymap" you want to build
13. Click "Run workflow"
14. Wait a minute until the firmware build is finished
15. Click a latest workflow run and open details
16. Download built firmware in "Artifacts" section
